Citations
Have to include the following
LogHub : 
Jieming Zhu, Shilin He, Pinjia He, Jinyang Liu, Michael R. Lyu. Loghub: A Large Collection of System Log Datasets for AI-driven Log Analytics. IEEE International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (ISSRE), 2023.


How the compressed logs are stored

Raw String not compressed
┌─────┬──────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┐
│  0  │  length (15 bits)│  raw bytes (length × 8 bits)       │
└─────┴──────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────┘
0 indicates that the string has not been compressed.
length indicates what is the length of the whole string.
raw bytes is just the string in bitstream.

If a log is compressed:
┌─────┬─────────────────────┬──────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────┐
│  1  │  window_id (3 bits) │  rle_length (13 bits)│  RLE delta payload               │
└─────┴─────────────────────┴──────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────┘
       where each chunk of RLE payload is either:
       ┌───┬──────────────┐     ┌───┬──────────────┐
       │ 0 │ count 8 bits │  or │ 1 │ byte  8 bits │
       └───┴──────────────┘     └───┴──────────────┘

1 indicates the log is compressed.
window_id shows which template in window[len of log] was used to compress the log
rle_length is the length of the whole rle encoded bitstring
rle delta payload is a contigous 8 bit blocks of either count or byte
count means these bits are same as template
byte means these bits are different from template so decode these


Ok whatever we do in week 1 is our submission for the deliverable on 20. Point 1 has been done by me and Im currently on modifying loglite
to get better control and results. Im currently exploring how to aleviate the problems listed under my point.
Note that main.ipynb has some initial work which we can use to do the tasks above, but final version of the engine has not been made yet. 
It will probably be in our next deliverable.

Ive structured the duties into 4 points for 4 menbers. Each point left should take 2-3 days from my estinmate. 
I read the template a few days back and we just have to show some progress so I don't think we need a correct functional version at this stag
The points are structured such that there is little deoendancy between them. Point 2 has some functions from point 1 (listed below)
which they will use to query. Point 3 would have queries as functions from point 2. point 4 is entorely seperate.
Ive adpoted a function interface so that everyone can work on their part parrelly and just call functions from their previous dependant parts.

Week 1:  Establish and validate the pipline. 
        1- implemend the keyword_search_loglite_binary function so that we can query compressed data. : Moosa
                : Problem in here is that since compressed logs are stored contigously so we will have to read 
                all compressed logs. 
                : L window also needs to be updated to decomress correctly.

        2- Select 3-5 datasets and devise simple queries to validate how good our engine is
                : We need to select 3-5 more datasets from dataset/Loghub directory other than the linux one.
                : these need to be be distinct from each other (AL,NDL). See the table in the loglite paper to select the datasets
                : You will have to make queries on the datsets which we can test (do keyword search ones)
                : make compressed bin files for the datasets. (you can see documentation on compressing in loglite's readme)
                : You just have to find queries which will tell how good/bad our model is performing
                : You will need to do execute every query made above on three modes
                        1- first decompress the log binary (instuctions in loglite readme) and perform on that
                        2- query performed with the function keyword_search_loglite_binary_full_decompression() 
                                (This decompresses the data but only stores matched strings)
                        3- query performed with keyword_search_loglite_binary_minor_optimization function
                : provide each query in a function with the interface (mode_chosen, dataset)


        3- Store the results and visualize them optionally:
                : call the query functions with the following interface (mode_chosen, dataset)
                : With the results above you will first have to store the results in a data structure 
                : Make precision, recall, accuracy, f1 score calculations with the above queries. call the query functions
                : between the three modes listed above see memory usage / cpu usage and other usages we defined in proposal
                : visualize these results with graphs

        4- Analysing loglite
                : So we will be modifying the loglite framework so we need to keep a baseline of how the 
                        orignal published model is performing 
                : you will need to clone the repo (https://github.com/benzhaotang/LogLite) as changes have been made to the copy in this repo.
                : You will need to analayse the following
                        1- resources each component of loglite takes in both compression and decompresses
                        2- analayse which component we can reduce the resources used. (for now Im just not decompressing some lines)
                        3- make an interface with which we can test our modified loglite performnace against the orignal.



Week 2 : Improve and optimize the Engine
        - Build support for more complex queries 
        - using all the datasets to evluate our model
        - Visualization should be made here now.

Week 3 : Just improve the engine furthur and documentation. For now will do whatever was left from week 2.


loglite.py : 


Additional ideas:

1- Use a static L-window. this ensures that whenever we need to decompress a log we would decxompress it correctly. This would cause 
optimailty of loglite to be dimished. we will need to see how much. (Partial decompression not full as was our goal)- This solves our 
problem but loglite's gurantees are effected.

2- Use a bloom filter. It gurantees that a log does not contaion a keyword if it does not (it tells either it has or mayby). 
Problem here would be that maintainance of L-window is still a problem. Im leaning towards this due to its gurantees of no false negatives.

3- chnage the L-window stricture itself
        a- keep a referance log :
                if (ref log xor curr log ) sim > some threshold they similar we compress with the referance log
                else we use the current log as the new referance log.

                rest compression/decompression would remain same. 

                idea is to have an list of referances with which we can decode. keep a counter of which line we are at in decompression and in
                compressed binary have a referance to the log which compressed it.

                This I believe would solve our problem but i think it can be better improved as it depends on the recently seen logs, if an 
                out of order log comes or unique log it would not provide much benefit. unique log is not something we can deal with as there
                is no better way to deal with it with the algorithm.
        
        b- modification of a - instead of just checking the referanc log we check all the previous referance logs. this solves the out of order pronblem

        rest logic would remain mostly same just how they access the L-window would change.